 Mike Bamiloye Speaks On What Women Would Want Bamiloye has said that a few ladies would have been more joyful if the good book had said that the wife is the top of the spouse ought not to submit to him. The filmmaker said this in a post common on his Instagram page toward the beginning of today. He affirmed that there are such countless sacred texts in the holy book that a few ladies would have wanted to eradicate and one of them is the one that discusses accommodation. READ ALSO: Actress Georgina Onuoha Educates Mike Bamiloye On True Feminism Read what he wrote below, ”Ephesians 5:22-24 NKJV [22] Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord. [23] For the husband is head of the wife, as also Christ is head of the church; and He is the Savior of the body. [24] Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything.1 Peter 3:1 NKJV “Wives, likewise, be submissive to your own husbands that even if some do not obey the word, they, without a word, may be won by the conduct of their wives, Colossians 3:18 NKJV. Wives, submit to your own husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. “There are some portions of the Word of God that some women would wish were not in the Bible. If it were possible for them, they would have erased such portion from the entire Scriptures. But unfortunately, the entire Word of God is infallible and is settled far away in Heaven. Therefore, such women chose to ignore the Scriptural instructions as though they were not existing at all. “Some women would have been happier if the Bible had said the Wife is the head of the husband, because of the way they behave in their homes. Some women in the Lord are actually the husband in their home. They must dictate the AFFAIRS of the home or there would be troubles. They call the shots. They do whatever they chose to do and their husbands must not object or there would be chaos. They are the husband in the home. They have reversed the instructions of the Word of God. “So many men of God are suffering in silence because of the stubbornness of their wives. The ministry would have scattered if they had insisted on using their authority in the home. They would agree with a lot of the foolish ideas and suggestions their wives would bring up and follow them with patience to preserve their ministry and for the sake of the church and congregation. They counsel other people’s home but theirs is in shamble in secret. There is a class of female Ministers who never stayed at home with their husband. They travel everywhere, being hosted in many hotels and suits all over as they minister about, eating the best of sumptuous meals provided by their hosts while their husband stay alone at home manning the local church…”