 Every year more and more activities are being transferred to the Internet. On the web we communicate, shop, order food, work, do our banking, buy movie tickets and, of course, meet new people. Internet dating has attracted users right from the very beginning. And with the development of technology, this tendency is becoming more global every year. But something happened that has become a real booster for the online dating industry. And this was the coronavirus pandemic. Back in 2019, when no one knew or even guessed about Covid-19, experts predicted that by 2024 there would be about 280 million users on online dating. But already we can see that this figure will end up much higher. It’s enough to look at the current statistics to be convinced of this. In 2020, when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak in many countries and quarantine restrictions remained very tight, the number of visits to dating sites reached unimaginable heights. Take a look at the number of visits to popular dating sites in March 2020: Note that this is a list of website visits only. Visits to applications are not counted. This means that for many popular services, these numbers can be at least doubled. Speaking of applications, the number of installations also started to grow rapidly. Here’s some new data for May 2021: Even applications that were not previously very popular among single users suddenly became highly demanded. It is logical that the increase in demand was the impetus for the growth of competition between online dating services. Even the giants of the market felt that the competition was growing and something had to be done to stay on top. And new or little-known players in the dating industry often decided to experiment and offered their clients completely new tools for communication and to find a mate. The recent years of dating sites and applications can be easily summed up in one word — “stagnation”. Until 2020, innovations were so rare and insignificant that they were often completely ignored by users. But the pandemic and quarantine changed everything. Here are just some of the most significant changes and innovations that have made us happy and surprised when using dating platforms over the last couple of years. Here it is worth making a small detour and remembering the existence of popular video chat roulette services. These are platforms that connect random users to each other, allowing them to communicate via video or text chat. Among the most popular chat roulettes today, we’d like to highlight: But let’s go back now to more classic dating sites and apps with some interesting innovations. Other dating services do not stand still either. Online dating is currently going through a period of intense competition, and so in the coming months and years we’ll see a lively race. In it, every dating site, app or video chat will strive to stand out from the competition and prove that it is the best of its kind. Undoubtedly, there will be those who will say that it was better in the past and that all these updates only confuse ordinary people. But most will agree that after a long downtime, such an active growth and expansion of the functionality of dating sites is great. In any area, competition is good, because it stimulates development and improvement. Who knows, perhaps in a couple of years an unknown service will oust Tinder and Badoo from the first places in all ratings. And some of the new chat roulettes will oust Omegle and Chatroulette from the leading positions they’ve occupied for more than ten years. We are standing on the cusp of a big change in the field of online dating. And no one can predict which path this industry will take in the near future. So we’ll just continue to follow the updates, look for the most interesting offers and observe how quickly familiar communication formats on the Web are changing. It’ll only get more interesting!