President Muhammadu Buhari has arrived in Paris, the French capital, for a one-day official visit, the presidency announced on Tuesday. Buhari’s visit to France is sequel to the invitation of President Emmanuel Macron at Palais de l’Élysée, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina said. In a statement, Adesina noted his principal arrived in the European country on Tuesday afternoon and will afterward attend the three-day Paris Peace Forum (PPF) from November 11-13, 2021. “During the official visit on Wednesday, President Buhari will meet with his French counterpart to discuss issues of mutual interest for both countries, particularly on strengthening economic ties, improving partnership on security, and working jointly on education, health and halting the threats of COVID-19 to the global economy,” the statement read. “From Thursday, President Buhari will join world leaders, heads of international organisations, leaders of civil society and the private sector at Grande Halle de La Villette to strategize on better governance for a world of peace, with plenaries, masterclasses and workshops.” The President is scheduled to make a remark at the event to share the peculiarity of the Nigerian experience with the world, and efforts undertaken so far for peace. Other speakers include President Macron, Vice President Kamala Harris of the United States, and Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh. It is expected that the world leaders will review 80 projects designed to improve peace across the globe and ensure more harmonious living like reforming capitalism for more impact on global economy, responding to the urgency of climate change, fake news and the challenge it poses on journalism and cyber security. The first edition of the Paris Peace Forum took place from November 11 -13, 2018, as part of the Armistice Day centenary commemorations, and was attended by over 110 foreign delegates, including 54 heads of state and government, showcasing 120 global governance projects and welcomed 6000 individuals over the three days. Among the attendees were Russian President Vladimir Putin, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and the 2018 Nobel Peace Prize laureate Nadia Murad. German Chancellor Angela Merkel and UN Secretary-General António Guterres joined President Macron in each making an opening remark at the beginning of the Forum.