 At least, 11 people have been killed while 13 others sustained various degrees of injury when gunmen attacked communities in Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State. The police spokesman in Katsina, SP Gambo Isa, said: “Yesterday 09/11/2021 at about 1915hrs, bandits in their numbers, shooting sporadically with AK 47 rifles, attacked Katoge and Yanturaku communities of Batsari LGA, killed 11 and injured 13 persons.” Isah added that the Commissioner of Police, Katsina State Command, had deployed a Deputy Commissioner of Police, in charge of operations, with additional units of personnel to the area to beef up security and restore confidence in the affected communities. Many properties were also burnt down in the fresh attacks on the communities. The attack, which reportedly began Tuesday evening and lasted into the early hours of Wednesday, saw dozens of houses including government structures and vehicles set ablaze. Witnesses said no fewer than five communities were struck by the armed men, where a yet to be ascertained number of people were either killed or injured. “In each of the communities invaded, the gunmen fired sporadically into the air to register their presence before going from house to house, looting victims of valuables and harassing residents,” a source said. The source added that several of the victims were trying to escape from the onslaught of the marauding gunmen when they sustained injuries. When contacted, the Member representing Batsari in the Katsina State House of Assembly, Hon. Jabir Yauyau, said he heard about the unfortunate incidents, but still gathering information about what actually happened. He added that details of what happened would be difficult to get for now, because of the lack of a telecommunication network in the area. “It is confirmed that the attack took place, but the casualties and the extent of damage caused is not yet known, especially because of the lack of mobile network in the area.” “I am told about the majority of those killed. They are people I know personally, but I still need to confirm. “I am trying to ascertain what actually happen because I am going to move a motion on matters of public importance in the house, but I have to get the actual thing,” he said.