 The Nigeria Police Force, Lagos State Command has commenced investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of a 12-year-old Dowen College student, Sylvester Oromoni Jnr, in Lekki Lagos on Tuesday, November 30. In a statement released on Saturday evening, the spokesperson of the state police command, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu, says the state Police Commissioner, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered the Maroko Divisional Police Officer under whose division the incident happened to commence an investigation into the matter. The press statement reads: ”The Lagos State Police Command is not unaware of the reported death of one Sylvester Oromoni, a 12-year-old student of Dowen College, Lekki, Lagos which is currently going viral on social media. The Command wishes to inform the public that, although no formal report of the incident was made to the police, the Commissioner of Police, upon hearing about it instantly directed the Divisional Police Officer, Maroko Division under whose jurisdiction the place of incident is to immediately visit the school to carry out an initial investigation into the incident. This directive has been carried out as an investigation into the case has since commenced. However, in view of the seriousness of the case, the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, has also been directed to take over the investigation of the case immediately. Members of the public, particularly the deceased’s bereaved parents, friends and relatives, are assured that the Lagos State Police Command has deployed all available human and material resources at its disposal to unravel the circumstances surrounding the sad and unfortunate incident. While diligent investigation is ongoing, members of the public are advised against taking the law into their own hands. They are also enjoined to refrain from comments that could jeopardize investigation. The Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, while commiserating with the bereaved family, has equally assured that the outcome of the police investigation would be made public in due course.