 Following the plans by the federal government to increase fuel prices, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has announced plans to embark on nationwide protests on January 27, 2022. The labour union made this known in a statement titled ”‘Congress Led Protest Rallies In All The 36 States Of The Federation On 27th January 2022 Against Plans By The Federal Government To Increase The Pump Price Of Petrol’’ and released by the General Secretary of the group, Comrade Emmanuel Ugboaja, to the executives of the party in the 36 states of the federation. The letter requested that executives convene a State Executive Council (SEC) meeting where they can map out strategies to ensure the success of the action in their respective states. It reads; “I bring you warm fraternal greetings from the Congress Headquarters while wishing you a merry Christmas, and a happy new year. You will recall that Congress held its National Executive Council (NEC) meeting on Friday, 17 December 2021, where some crucial decisions were taken. It is in furtherance of the said decisions that we write to inform you that 27 January, 2022, was picked as a day that Congress-led protest rallies will hold in the 36 States of the Federation, against the plans of the Federal Government to increase the pump price of petrol. You are hereby requested to convene a State Executive Council (SEC) meeting where you can map out strategies to ensure the success of the action in your state. You are also encouraged to reach out to our civil society allies in your state in your mobilization efforts. A Central Working Committee (CWC) member will be on hand on the day of the rally with the Protest Letter to be submitted to the governor of your state. Please feel free to reach out to the General Secretary for any clarifications and observations in the implementation of this NEC decision.”

Earlier, the People’s Alternative Political Movement (TPAP-M), a coalition of individuals and organizations committed to the emergence and building of a Mass Workers Party, and the Socialist Transformation of Nigeria, rejected the recent hike in the price of gas and the impending hikes in the price of fuel and electricity tariff, among other things. The coalition stated this in a communique of a public meeting organized by TRAP-M and its allies on the impending hikes in fuel and electricity prices. It said it would organize another Occupy Nigeria Protests on the 10th anniversary of the first one in January 2022.