 Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has said the next State Sports Festival will hold in 2022, barring any hitches to the preparations. The Governor spoke at the closing ceremony of the sixth national youths game held in Ilorin, the state capital, where Kwara finished 6th on the national medals’ table — six places higher than its standing in 2019 when the games were last held. Kwara won a total of 32 medals, including 10 gold, in the games. In 2019, it won 22 medals, including three gold. “Let me congratulate you all. The state appreciates you. We know you improve all the time. We had wanted to hold the State Sports Festival this year but because of Covid-19 we will hold it early next year so as to keep all of you together, keep your synergies together and make you excel better in the sports you are doing,” AbdulRazaq told state athletes on the sidelines of the closing ceremony at the University of Ilorin. AbdulRazaq thanked the athletes for making the state proud at the festival. Speaking with sports writers, the governor lauded the federal government for holding five editions of NYG in Kwara State, saying the games have led to improvement in the state’s sporting facilities and its internally generated revenues. “Covid-19 has made the hosting a bit difficult because this edition ought to hold earlier. In fact, this year’s edition is an improvement on the last one and that of 2019 was also an improvement on the year before. The federal government is taking the event very seriously. I am glad the Minister of Youths and Sports and the Permanent Secretary were here for the event. State governments’ officials from all over the federation were also here. That shows the importance of sports in youths and in national development,” he said. “We are taking sports very seriously in the state. It helps us improve on our facilities and on our internally generated revenues. Sports bring all of us together. Youths from all over the country are here sharing experiences. It is a great development. It is a great effort and we are happy to host it and we will be willing to host it forever.” AbdulRazaq was received by members of the Kwara State Sports Commission led by its Executive Chairman Bola Mogaji. Kwara ended the campaign 6th on the medals’ table with 10 gold, 10 silver and 12 bronze, totalling 32 medals.